Add Tournament bans article to Help centre (#7194)
ppy/osu-wiki: wiki/Help_centre/Tournament_bans/en.md

# Tournament bans

*Main page: [Help centre](/wiki/Help_centre)*

A tournament ban prevents a player from being involved in officially supported tournaments in any capacity. This includes playing and staffing or any other kind of assistance.

> Tournament bans are very rarely handed out their own, but generally speaking almost all players who return under a standard appeal for an [account restriction](/wiki/Help_centre/Account_restrictions) are subject to one of at least a year in length.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tournament bans are very rarely handed out on their own, but generally speaking almost all players who return under a standard appeal for an [account restriction](/wiki/Help_centre/Account_restrictions) are subject to one of at least a year in length.
```

Maybe I'm being stupid, but the current wording feels wrong to me. Use your own judgment I guess.

# Tournament bans

*Main page: [Help centre](/wiki/Help_centre)*

A tournament ban prevents a player from being involved in officially supported tournaments in any capacity. This includes playing and staffing or any other kind of assistance.

Tournament bans are very rarely handed out their own, but generally speaking almost all players who return under a standard appeal for an [account restriction](/wiki/Help_centre/Account_restrictions) are subject to one of at least a year in length.

Due to the high-stakes nature of tournament play, tournament bans are treated very seriously and are not subject to the kind of leniency an account restriction might ordinarily receive.

## What causes someone to receive a temporary tournament ban?

Any severe violation of the [community rules](/wiki/Rules) that takes place during an [officially supported tournament](/wiki/Tournaments/Official_support) is likely to cause a tournament ban, even if it would have typically only resulted in an infringement outside of the competitive play setting.

> Some real-world examples of such behavior is as follows:
> 
> - Drawing or writing hate symbols/slurs (swastika, etc.) using cursor smoke in streamed matches

Reviewer 2: well now we have a single bullet point

```suggestion
As a real-world example, such behaviour would include drawing or writing hate symbols/slurs (swastika, etc.) using cursor smoke in streamed matches.
```

# Tournament bans

*Main page: [Help centre](/wiki/Help_centre)*

A tournament ban prevents a player from being involved in officially supported tournaments in any capacity. This includes playing and staffing or any other kind of assistance.

Tournament bans are very rarely handed out their own, but generally speaking almost all players who return under a standard appeal for an [account restriction](/wiki/Help_centre/Account_restrictions) are subject to one of at least a year in length.

Due to the high-stakes nature of tournament play, tournament bans are treated very seriously and are not subject to the kind of leniency an account restriction might ordinarily receive.

## What causes someone to receive a temporary tournament ban?

Any severe violation of the [community rules](/wiki/Rules) that takes place during an [officially supported tournament](/wiki/Tournaments/Official_support) is likely to cause a tournament ban, even if it would have typically only resulted in an infringement outside of the competitive play setting.

Some real-world examples of such behavior is as follows:

- Drawing hate symbols (swastika, etc.) using cursor smoke in streamed matches

> - Writing slurs or parts of slurs in cursor smoke in streamed matches

Reviewer 3: Remove the first of these as it's not adding much and basically the same as the second?

> All users returning to the game after a restriction under the standard appeal terms are also subject to a [1 year minimum temporary tournament ban](/wiki/Help_centre/Account_restrictions#common-restriction-reasons-and-cooldowns), which may be lengthened at the discretion of the account support team.

Reviewer 2: otherwise "1-year ... ban" or "one-year ... ban"

```suggestion
All users returning to the game after a restriction under the standard appeal terms are also subject to a [minimum temporary tournament ban of 1 year](/wiki/Help_centre/Account_restrictions#common-restriction-reasons-and-cooldowns), which may be lengthened at the discretion of the [account support team](/wiki/People/The_Team/Account_support_team).
```

## What causes someone to receive a permanent tournament ban?

Any use of third-party cheating tools or other methods to gain an unfair advantage over other participants in an officially supported tournament will result in a permanent tournament ban. In some situations, especially excessive cases of abuse may also elicit such a punishment.

This includes situations like:

- As above, any use of third-party cheating tools or utilities to gain an advantage
- Making use of multiple accounts to enter a tournament
- Attempting to evade a silence or infringement by using another account
- Account sharing within/during an officially supported tournament

> - Conspiring to obtain or otherwise using private information to gain or confer an advantage (such as accessing mappool information before other teams, etc)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Conspiring to obtain or otherwise using private information to gain or confer an advantage (such as accessing mappool information before other teams, etc.)
```

> - Abusing positions of trust to gain or confer an advantage (manipulating schedules, unfairly changing team compositions or disqualifying participants without cause or reasoning)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Abusing positions of trust to gain or confer an advantage (manipulating schedules, unfairly changing team compositions, or disqualifying participants without cause or reasoning)
```

> - Organizing targeted abuse campaigns towards participants or organizers well outside the realm of criticism

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Organising targeted abuse campaigns towards participants or organisers well outside the realm of criticism
```

## Can I appeal a tournament ban?

Whether temporary or permanent, **tournament bans cannot be appealed**.

> In rare situations, the account support team may review individual cases at their discretion and remove or reapply appropriate punishments to ensure they remain consistent with similar instances in the past.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In rare situations, the [account support team](/wiki/People/The_Team/Account_support_team) may review individual cases at their discretion and remove or reapply appropriate punishments to ensure they remain consistent with similar instances in the past.
```

> ## What can I do while tournament banned?

Reviewer 2: or "banned from tournaments"

```suggestion
## What can I do while tournament-banned?
```

> You may continue to play in community tournaments that do not request official support or require screening at the discretion of the individuals organizing such events.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You may continue to play in community tournaments that do not request official support or require screening at the discretion of the individuals organising such events.
```

> Information about your tournament ban status may be provided to tournament organizers upon request, whether they are benefitting from official support or not.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Information about your tournament ban status may be provided to tournament organisers upon request, whether they are benefitting from official support or not.
```

## Common tournament ban reasons and durations

| Tournament ban reason | Duration | Notes |
| :-- | :-- | :-- |

> | Player misconduct during officially supported tournament | 1-2 years | N/A |

Reviewer 2: empty looks better to me than "notes not applicable"

```suggestion
| Player misconduct during an officially supported tournament | 1-2 years |  |
```

> | Returning under standard appeal terms | 1-2 years | May be longer at account support team's discretion |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Returning under standard appeal terms | 1-2 years | May be longer at the account support team's discretion |
```

> | Multi-accounting or account sharing during officially supported tournament | Permanent | Will also cause a restriction |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Multi-accounting or account sharing during an officially supported tournament | Permanent | Will also cause a restriction |
```

> | Using third-party utilities or other cheating tools during officially supported tournament | Permanent | Will also cause a restriction |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Using third-party utilities or other cheating tools during an officially supported tournament | Permanent | Will also cause a restriction |
```

> | Utilizing private/confidential tournament information to gain or confer an unfair advantage | Permanent | May also cause a restriction |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Utilising private/confidential tournament information to gain or confer an unfair advantage | Permanent | May also cause a restriction |
```

> | Severe abuse towards or harassment of tournament organizers/staff/participants | Permanent | May also cause a restriction |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Severe abuse towards or harassment of tournament organisers/staff/participants | Permanent | May also cause a restriction |
```
